(Intro Music)
In this video, we're gonna go ahead
and download and instal IntelliJ Idea
which is the editor/IDE that
we're gonna be using in this course
and we're gonna be doing it for a Linux platform,
specifically Ubuntu Linux 16.04.
Now if you're running Windows or a Mac,
you'd wanna check out the other videos
or the videos that we've set up
for both operating systems in this section of the course
and that's because the process
of installation's slightly different.
But if your on Linux this is the correct video.
Now the first thing to do is open up Firefox
or your browser of choice
and we wanna go to the Jetbrains website- jetbrains.com.
And once we get there we need to go to the page
where we can download IntelliJ.
Alright and usually you'll see that option
here on the screen because it's
one of their most popular products.
Jetbrains is the company that have created this product.
So you can either select it there or
if you don't see that for some reason
come up here onto IDEs and IntelliJ will usually
be the first option or very close to the first option.
So go to that page,
then click on download.
And what I'm going to do is start the download
for the Community Edition
and while that's downloading we'll come back to this page
and just talk about the Ultimate and Community Editions
and what differences there are between the two.
Alright what I'm gonna do first is save that though
and that will go into my downloads folder.
Now I'll just go back here, as I mentioned,
just so we can have a bit of a look at the two options.
So we've got the Ultimate Edition,
as well as the Community Edition.
Now the Community Edition which I'm downloading
is the free and open source version
and you'll never have to pay with that option.
So if you wanna go ahead and use that option,
it's a good option and it will
certainly work well in this course.
The Ultimate Edition does come with a trial
however if after that trial period,
if you still wanna use it you'll need to pay for it.
And the difference between the two is that
the Ultimate Edition has extra features,
it's really good for other things,
other than standard languages.
So it's good for Java Enterprise Edition
and you can see here other frameworks
and databases and so on and so forth.
So what you can do, is if you decide
to try out the Ultimate Edition,
you can try that out for 30 days.
The Jetbrains people will give you
a 30 day trial to try that out
and you can always come back and download
the Community Edition later.
Now the other thing to keep in mind
is that I can increase that trial period by another 90 days,
giving you a 120 days, by giving you a coupon
that will enable that to extend that period of time.
Now if you wanna take advantage of that and try out
the Ultimate Edition for the full 120 days
details of that are in a lecture
in this section of the course
but again either version will work
and if you wanna try out the Ultimate Edition you can
but in my case you saw me download the Community Edition.
Alright, so let's go ahead now
and instal the version that we've downloaded.
And over here I can see now that my version's finished,
so I'm gonna just open that and go into the folder
where it was actually downloaded.
Actually what I'll do is I'll just come down here
and close this browser down
and we can see that it's in the downloads folder
and I'm just going to put this software
in a folder on my computer.
So I'm going to first open it with Archive Manager
and then what I'm going to do is
come back to my Home folder and I'm going
to create a folder for my apps.
So I'm gonna click on New Folder
and I'm gonna call that dev
and it's just gonna be the folder I'm gonna put IntelliJ.
Now you are of course free to put this
software wherever you like
but that's the location where I'm gonna be running it from.
Once you've done that, you've selected the folder
where you want it to go, you can come back over here
and then you can just literally just click on that
and drag it over and that will move the files
into that location for us.
And once that's finished we can close down
both of these windows and we now wanna go into terminal.
So we're gonna click on terminal,
so you go into terminal or command prompt,
whatever it's called on your installation of Linux,
then you wanna navigate now to that folder.
So we're gonna go CD, in my case,
have a look at the current folder.
I'm in my Home folder and I'm gonna click on cd dev
and if we have a look there by typing ls
you can see that there's the installation of Idea.
So I'm just gonna type in cd space and then the folder name
and then I can go into the bin folder, the cd space bin,
and have a look at that again and you can see that
there's various folders there.
The one we want to start is idea.sh.
So I'm gonna type dot forward slash idea, to start it.
And the first time you load, or you actually start,
IntelliJ Idea it gives you a prompt to import settings.
So if you've got an existing version of IntelliJ,
you can import the settings and particularly
if you've customised it and changed,
maybe perhaps played around with fonts and other things,
can be a good way to stop you
having to re-set everything up again from scratch.
In my case though I haven't got any settings to import
so I'm gonna select this option
and that's probably the option you'll choose in most cases
because you probably haven't had IntelliJ
installed on your computer before.
So click on OK and we need to accept the privacy policy,
by clicking on Accept.
Now you've got some options as to how
you want the theme, or what the theme is for IntelliJ and
you can see if I select it, we can see different options.
I'm gonna choose IntelliJ,
the standard option with the white background,
but you'll choose whichever one you feel is appropriate,
and keep in mind you can always come down here
to go back to Settings within IntelliJ:
Appearance and Behaviour, Appearance
and change set ups at a later time if you feel you need to.
Once you've done that click on Next.
Now we wanted to automatically create a desktop entry for us
so that we don't have to go to
terminal or to a command prompt
to start IntelliJ each time.
So I'm going to leave that ticked and get it to do that
and again in settings later on, you can come back to tools,
create desktop entry, if you wanna do that in the future
and you don't wanna do it now, for some reason.
So I'm gonna leave that option selected.
I'm not gonna create it for all users.
If you wanted to for some reason
you can click on that checkbox, click on next.
Now you can use IntelliJ from the command line if you want.
You can invoke it and that's an option if you want to.
I'm gonna click on that even though
we probably won't be doing that in the course;
It's actually there for you just to do if you want.
Click on next.
Now we've got a number of plugins that you can configure
and some of these are actually configured already.
So you can enable them or disable them or customise them.
I'd suggest generally you leave everything as is
because you can always go back in again later
and configure or add plugins at any time.
So I'm gonna leave everything as is there.
Just one other thing to keep in mind is
if you're running the Ultimate Edition,
and not the Community Edition that I'm installing,
you probably will have extra options there
because of the extra functionality
that the Ultimate Edition of IntelliJ gives you.
But in my case I'm not gonna do anything,
I'm just gonna click on next
and we've got some other options
to download some featured plugins.
We're not gonna be using those plugins
in this course either, so I'm just gonna click on
start using IntelliJ Idea.
I need to enter my password now.
Now that's to setup the launcher, installer.
Click on authenticate and IntelliJ should now start;
As you can see it's starting.
Okay so now we've installed IntelliJ,
there's a few settings we need to configure.
So to do that we're gonna come over here
and click on configure.
Come down here to project defaults
and select project structure.
Now what we need to is configure a project SDK.
Now if you click on that at the moment
you can see clearly there's no SDK to find.
So what we need to do now is associate
the Java Development Kit, that we installed
in a previous video, with IntelliJ.
So to do that we're gonna click on new,
and come over here and select JDK.
Now what should happen is that IntelliJ will find
the Java Development Kit for us automatically
and you can see, in this particular case, it did.
If for some reason it doesn't find
that for you automatically you may need to go ahead
and manually choose the location
and choose the home directory
but in my case, again, you can see
that that's found that okay.
So I don't need to do anything else now,
other than clicking on OK.
And you can see once I've done that this has now changed
and we've got the Java version showing now.
And if by some reason it still wasn't selected
make sure that you have got that selected up there.
The other thing here that we wanna
have selected is the SDK default.
That is selected to the latest
or it is choosing the latest version, which is correct,
so we don't need to make any changes to that.
And incidentally, I did mention earlier,
but if by chance you got to the screen
and you couldn't see the option that I could see,
Project is the option
that you'd select to see those on the screen.
Alright, so I'm gonna click on OK now.
And there's a few other little minor options
we now need to configure, so lets go ahead and do those.
Click on Configure and click on Settings.
Now what we wanna do is open up here,
down under Editor, expand that list of options
and under General do the same thing, click on that.
Firstly, we wanna click on Auto Import
and we're gonna click on, or add the checkbox,
or click the checkbox for Add unambigous imports on the fly
and then the checkbox we should click for
Optimise imports on the fly.
So click on apply to that and then
just come down here to Appearance
and we wanna make sure that Show line numbers is checked.
And you can see that by default it is checked
but if for some reason it's not,
make sure you do check it there,
but you can see in my case it is,
and we're gonna click on OK.
Now at that point, we've now finished
the configuration for IntelliJ Idea.
What I am gonna do now is close this down.
And I'm gonna close down the command line, the terminal.
And we should be able to now come over here
and if we have a look for IntelliJ,
you can see that IntelliJ is now appearing there
as a desktop shortcut, so I can click on that
and that's how I can go ahead and instal,
or run rather, IntelliJ Idea in the future.
And you can see that it's started fine.
Alright so that's it,
that's the installation and configuration of IntelliJ Idea,
let's now move on to the next video.